Instructions:
bash script (date) -> cd into lab2 folder which holds the java code
in command enter, bash countdown.sh
bash script (for compile)-> bash build.sh then enter lab2_inputs.txt
makefile-> make -f makefile
to run the awk, you'd need the csv which is in the group repo.

I perfered writing the code in Java over bash, as I am more used to writing classes and functions under java's rules. Its easy to make mistakes in bash due to its syntax. I found myself coming across multiple errors due to not putting spaces between variables and operators inside the conditional statments, while for java, I didn't worry for that too much. Only issue that java brought up was dealing with types. Converting strings into characters or integers in order to calculate the difference. In bash, I only needed the user's date (string) and converted that into the date format, this was quick and easy. Whereas in Java, I had to store the string character's into an array and go through that array only taking the integer values leaving "/" and "-" out. I also like the clear function in bash, it kept the terminal from looking a mess incase a user kept running the program. 
The group assignment was the fun part of the lab, I usually have a hard time with new languages that are different from the ones I commonly know. Before this, I never made scripts or used the terminal often, but this assignment helped me build on those skills. I liked working with awk because my question (comparing time HH:MM:SS) allowed me to work with regex. Currently I am taking computer theory with Yanofsky, and in the class theres a topic on writing regular expressions for machines. I found writing them in the awk script was similar in a way, and helpful. My group's dataset was also interesting to go through as it revolved around a situation that hits close to home for us: Crime(shootings) in NYC. The result we came across were not shocking but indeed sad, and we were able to conclude a lot of things through what we filtered. 